I am Archimedes. Born in 287 BC in Syracuse
on the eastern coast of Sicily, Italy. I was
a Greek mathematician, philosopher and inventor
who wrote important works on geometry, arithmetic
and mechanics.
I was educated in Alexandria in Egypt. I then
returned to Syracuse, where I spent most of
the rest of my life, devoting my time to research
and experimentation in many fields. In mechanics
I defined the principle of the lever and is
credited with inventing the compound pulley
and the hydraulic screw for raising water
from a lower to higher level. I am also credited
with discovering a very accurate estimate
for the value of pi in advanced mathematics.
I was also recognized as a weapons designer,
engineer, inventor, astronomer, physicist,
and all-round scientist.
I am most famous for discovering the law of
hydrostatics, sometimes known as 'Archimedes'
principle', stating that a body immersed in
fluid loses weight equal to the weight of
the amount of fluid it displaces. I am supposed
to have made this discovery when stepping
into my bath, causing me to exclaim 'Eureka!'
During the Roman conquest of Sicily in 214
BC, I worked for the state, and several of
my mechanical devices were employed in the
defense of Syracuse. Among the war machines
attributed to me are the catapult and - perhaps
legendary - a mirror system for focusing the
sun's rays on the invaders' boats and igniting
them. After Syracuse was captured, I was killed
by a Roman soldier. I was so absorbed in my
calculations that I told my killer not to
disturb me.
if you Give me but a firm spot on which to
stand, then I shall move the world. I tried
to make better present and future with my
studies and research. I hope people still
believe in science and its abilities to make
our lives better.